Shortcuts
ctrl+Alt+Up multi cursors

Sampling Rate
The sampling rate refers to the number of samples of audio recorded every second. It is measured in samples per second or Hertz (abbreviated as Hz or kHz, with one kHz being 1000 Hz).
An audio sample is just a number representing the measured acoustic wave value at a specific point in time.
It’s very important to note that these samples are taken at temporally equispaced instants in a second. For example, if the sampling rate is 8000 Hz, it’s not enough that there be 8000 samples sampled during a second; they must be taken at exactly 1/8000 of a second apart. The 1/8000 number in this case would be called the sampling interval (measured in seconds), and the sampling rate is simply the multiplicative inverse of that. 

Spectral Centroi
The spectral centroid indicates at which frequency the energy of a spectrum is centered upon or in other words It indicates where the ” center of mass” for a sound is located. This is like a weighted mean

Spectral Rolloff
It is a measure of the shape of the signal. It represents the frequency at which high frequencies decline to 0. To obtain it, we have to calculate the fraction of bins in the power spectrum where 85% of its power is at lower frequencies

Spectral bandwidt
The spectral bandwidth is defined as the width of the band of light at one-half the peak maximum (or full width at half maximum [FWHM]) and is represented by the two vertical red lines and λSB on the wavelength axis.

Zero-Crossing Rate
A very simple way for measuring the smoothness of a signal is to calculate the number of zero-crossing within a segment of that signal. A voice signal oscillates slowly — for example, a 100 Hz signal will cross zero 100 per second — whereas an unvoiced fricative can have 3000 zero crossings per second.

Mel-Frequency Cepstral Coefficients(MFCCs)
The Mel frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCCs) of a signal are a small set of features (usually about 10–20) which concisely describe the overall shape of a spectral envelope. It models the characteristics of the human voice.

Chroma Feature
A chroma feature or vector is typically a 12-element feature vector indicating how much energy of each pitch class, {C, C#, D, D#, E, …, B}, is present in the signal. In short, It provides a robust way to describe a similarity measure between music pieces.

File Open:
Read Only (‘r’) : Open text file for reading. The handle is positioned at the beginning of the file. If the file does not exists, raises I/O error. This is also the default mode in which file is opened.
Read and Write (‘r+’) : Open the file for reading and writing. The handle is positioned at the beginning of the file. Raises I/O error if the file does not exists.
Write Only (‘w’) : Open the file for writing. For existing file, the data is truncated and over-written. The handle is positioned at the beginning of the file. Creates the file if the file does not exists.
Write and Read (‘w+’) : Open the file for reading and writing. For existing file, data is truncated and over-written. The handle is positioned at the beginning of the file.
Append Only (‘a’) : Open the file for writing. The file is created if it does not exist. The handle is positioned at the end of the file. The data being written will be inserted at the end, after the existing data.
Append and Read (‘a+’) : Open the file for reading and writing. The file is created if it does not exist. The handle is positioned at the end of the file. The data being written will be inserted at the end, after the existing data.

StandardScaler
StandardScaler removes the mean and scales each feature/variable to unit variance. This operation is performed feature-wise in an independent way. StandardScaler can be influenced by outliers (if they exist in the dataset) since it involves the estimation of the empirical mean and standard deviation of each feature.



Librosa features:-https://librosa.org/doc/latest/feature.html 
